All right, yeah, so I found structs
a little challenging when I first
got introduced to them, and
I haven't even touched on interfaces.
But interface is a concept that
I personally really enjoy, but
I never understood them until I saw how
they were used in a practical application.
So I'm saving that for after,
but just remember, interfaces and
structs are a core component of
how Go implements its logic.
If you look at a lot of
packages that define Go,
they always have an interface type.
I'm gonna go example as to why
that is in just a little bit here.
But I think that's it for structs,
I think they're super important.
The whole thing of pointers and references
is kind of cool too if you never use it.
I know I never did until Go.
So, again, that's one of those
things I started learning.
As I started using go, it just made me
kind of be aware of the depth of software
engineering and software programming
more once I started using it.
Okay, cool.
All that's super nice.
There's one more.
Let's go into imports.
We're doing alive.
A lot of people are asking about this.
So, make a new pack
directly called imports,
but this time the file,
I want you to name it imports.go, okay?
And then for the package instead of main,
you package imports.
All right, so lots of great questions
around importing and exporting in Go.
This is a very, very famous gotcha in Go.
So let's just make, I don't know.
Let's create a new struct.
Let's go Ticket struct, and
it's gonna have two fields, not fun.
Funk, sorry.
Let's go type ticket struck,
and say it's two fields.
Let's say the ticket's gonna have an ID,
which is gonna be an INT and then,
event, which is small e, okay?
So we have both right now.
And then let's create
a function on our ticket.
So func.
Let's make a receiver so T,
Ticket and let's just say,
printEvent that took me way
too long to come up with.
So it's not gonna take any argument.
All it's going to do is do
a fmt.Println on t.event.
Okay, cool.
Ignore the yellow squiggly for a second.
If we go back to the first main.go file we
created, remember this Hello World one.
Let's hop back into that for
just a second.
If you want to import something
from a neighboring package.
You may be thinking, okay, will I do
something like this and then go import?
No, Go doesn't have this notation for
relative imports.
If you go back to our go.mod file here,
this module not only played a role for
us to define something that could
be consumed by other parties,
but it's also how we define our own
packages in our own scoped application.
So go back to main.go, and
right under the F format,
we'll do femgo/name of the package.
We named it, I forget,
what do we named it?
Imports, right?
And this is a bad name.
I probably shouldn't even packages, but
I just hope you get
the gist here from basics.
Changes to femme basics, okay?
We are composite language again.
Import not used, so again,
go does not like when you don't use stuff.
So here,
let's say we create a new ticket, right?
So we can do new ticket is,
To import dot ticket,
and then we can do the ID,
let's say just 123.
But, we cannot have the event fields.
If I put an event and
I put a front end masters course.
I'm really not a creative individual.
We're getting yelled at, right?
It's gonna say a Unknown field event
instruct literal of type imports ticket,
which is strange because if you dig down
into ticket, we have event defined here.
But this is where that capitalization and
making functions and
properties public comes into place.
Even though our ticket struck
is capitalized with a T,
and we've actually used it over here,
we're able to create a new Ticket.
And with the ID but we can't put event
because e is not capitalized here.
So here we can just change
this to be a capital E.
We'll go down here,
change this to capital E as well.
To go back to remain.go, we can just
change this from lowercase to capital and
now we have our new ticket, right?
And we could do format, println,
and I should say new ticket.
And if you run this, again,
this is the root main.go file, so
all you need to do is go run main.go.
You now see we have 1, 2,
3 FEM course as a properties or ticket.
But we have a function
method on that type.
So if we go back up here and
we'll do new ticket.event,
those are the only properties that
we have on our type right now,
on our ticket type or ticket struck.
And again, that is because if
you go back to our imports.go,
our print is not capitalized.
So once we capitalize the P,
and we go back,
we can now call new ticket.Printevent,
right?
And now if we run this code
from course 123 FCM course.
Yes.
>> If you have the qualified
name with the GitHub.com etc,
does that have to be included in
the import for a local package?
>> No, not the whole thing.
>> Okay
>> Only be the actual go.mod name
of the package and define it.
So only like the Go blueprint part or
like the name of the package.
The entire Definition.
Actually, wait, I'm wrong.
As a person importing the package,
it is that whole definition, okay?
So you're right, you would have
to put GitHub.com/, etc, etc.
If I'm someone who depends on it or
whatever,
as the person creating the package, right?
You can maintain that Go mod or
the whole thing as the whole string, or
you can shorten it to be something
aliased when you're developing it.
Because around the whole thing, when
you're kind of creating that software,
can become cumbersome.
I want to say client-facing,
but more on user-facing,
you would have to still
depend on the entire string.
So we do go get, let's say entire name
package, GitHub.com/xyz, whatever.
Let's just say that for example, and
as someone who's gonna consume it,
what you have to do is
literally put GitHub.com/xyz.
But as a reference, you can see
here we have our imports, right?
But we're not putting fembasics/imports,
when we're calling the method,
it's only imports.ticket.
So what would it be?
It would be the last portion
that you're bringing in.
So it would be xyz.MethodFromPackage,
okay?
And to avoid collision, right?
Let's say I have GitHub.com/xyz.
And for whatever reason,
I also named my package xyz.
Which xyz is gonna take, the compiler
says, hey, you can't use another xyz,
so you can actually just add
an alias prepended like GitHub.
That's a bad example.
Outside xyz, right?
And then you can use
the package like that, okay?
So, you can change the name of
the import if in case it's collisions.
Did that answer your question?
Was that, cool?
Thank you.
Yes.
>> So with that, you probably wouldn't
normally name a package imports.
>> You would not.
>> If your imports was all about tickets,
is it normal to see like ticket.ticket?
>> Yeah, great.
Yeah, thank you.
You're right,
don't name any imported package as import.
This was a bad example to try to showcase
the module of how importing works, but
in practicality,
it kind of loses that mojo.
If you were to,
let's say make a new package.
It's a more practical example and
we're gonna see this when
we build our AWS software.
You will have something called database,
right?
As the directory.
And within your database,
you'll have database.go.
And in your package name,
in the scope of your actual application,
it's completely fine to
have package database.
And then functions that define
the type of your database,
functions that define methods
that interact with the database.
But this is a completely reasonable,
I made a typo, but
it's a completely reasonable
way to structure Go code.
And we're gonna go into this and
more once you write more Go code.